Created a skeleton of the documentation (#27)
populationgenomics/structural-constraint: docs/SoftwareArchitecture.md

# Sofware architecture

## Overview

> The structural-constraint project develops a new method for identifying compact 3D regions under missense constraint within protein tertiary structures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The structural-constraint project develops a new method for identifying compact 3D regions under missense constraint within protein tertiary structures.

```

> The project is organised in independent components interacting through defined interfaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project is organised in independent components, interacting through defined interfaces.

```

![](softarchitect.png)

## Components
### Alignment module

> Provides the genomic coordiantes of each nucleotide of each codon for the transect used by a given protein structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provides the genomic coordinates of each nucleotide of each codon for the transect used by a given protein structure.

```

#### Interfaces

> - in: gene model, e.g. GTF file for a specific version of GENCODE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- input: A gene model, e.g. GTF file for a specific version of GENCODE

```

> - in: 3D protein structure, e.g. PBR file from AlphaFold 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- input: 3D protein structure, e.g. PBR file from AlphaFold 2

```

Reviewer 2: I think this should also be PDB file here

> - out: A protein alignment file (.tsv) with the following structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- output: A protein alignment file (.tsv) with the following structure:

```

| Uniprot ID | HGNC gene | ENSG gene ID |  ENST transcript ID | residue index | Reference genome | genomic position | REF |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---|
|P68133	|ACTA1|	ENSG00000143632	|ENST00000366684|	377|	GRCh37	|1:229567249G|	G|
|P68133	|ACTA1	|ENSG00000143632	|ENST00000366684	|377	|GRCh37	|1:229567250A	|A
|P68133	|ACTA1	|ENSG00000143632	|ENST00000366684	|377	|GRCh37	|1:229567251A	|A

### Constraint model module

> For each codon, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each codon: 

```

> - calculates the number of expected missense mutations using a constraint model (e.g. gnomAD v2 constraint model)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- calculate the number of expected missense mutations using a constraint model (e.g. gnomAD v2 constraint model)

```

> - extracts the number of observed missense mutations from a large genomic database (e.g. gnomAD v2.2.1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- extract the number of observed missense mutations from a large genomic database (e.g. gnomAD v2.2.1)

```

#### Interfaces

> - in: a protein alignment file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- input: a protein alignment file

```

> - in: an access to a large genomic database (e.g. gnomAD v2 through hail)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- input: access to a large genomic database (e.g. gnomAD v2 through hail)

```

> - out: An oe file (.tsv) with the following structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- output: An o/e file (.tsv) with the following structure:

```

| residue index | obs | exp | exp_factor | exp_sigma |
| --- | --- |---|---|---|

### 3D Factory module

> Creates candidate 3D regions and calculates their intolerance score (o/e) using specific criteria 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates candidate 3D regions and calculates their intolerance score (o/e) using specific criteria. 

```

### Adjudicator module

> Assigns an intolerance score to each residue depending on the scores of the 3D regions it belongs to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assigns an intolerance score to each residue depending on the scores of the 3D regions it belongs to.

```
